

Dear Rose,

I am no longer afraid of the blank page or the blinking cursor. How long has it been since I wrote to you? Five, six months? More? I don't think either of us can say with confidence without "going through the books." For civility and politeness, I thought it'd be best if I started with a paragraph or two explaining (or working towards an explanation for) why it has taken this long to write. But no, that'd be perpetuating a pattern of bad behaviour. My emails tend to follow the same template: start high, dip right after, go high again, and keep climbing until you reach the end. If they'd been pissed at me before reading the email, the reader should be bubbling with joy or simmering with empathetically-contacted sadness at the end. Will you look out for these patterns as you read? Thank you.

It's Sunday, the day of the final exam, and close to the end of the year. I'm in front of my computer but also moving about in my brain. A lot happened this year, I'm aware. Deconstructing "a lot" will take time and wouldn't be clean. There's no guarantee (no chance if I'm being honest) that the block of text that comes after this will be coherent or logically sound. I'll let it pour out of me. I'll pick and prune and lay it out as best as I can, but there really cannot be any guarantee.

Why are bad memories easier to elicit than good ones? The start of January was awful. I can remember standing in my underwear and looking out my bedroom window at the fireworks that marked the start of the new year. It was cold, dark and slippery. I think it might have rained a little, but I'm not sure. Still, looking down, I could see people walking in small groups, huddling close to one another, sharing warmth and happiness. Through my soundproof window, I was certain I heard more than a few laughs. The people were beautiful. The fireworks were beautiful. The trees and the cars and the walkways, lightly covered in pure white snow, were beautiful. Overhead, the stars were out and shone as if they'd been choreographed with the fireworks. The view outside my window was magic come alive. However, some light rays hitting the window from my room were bound to be reflected and reach my eyes. I only had to look in a certain way, flip a switch in my brain, to see the breathtaking display overlaid with an image of teary-eyed, wrinkly-faced me in my underwear. "What's so wrong with this picture?", you may ask. It's the needlessness of it. Nothing was stopping me from putting on clothes and going for a walk among these happy people, to be part of the beauty I was appreciating. I knew this even while standing there. Nothing, that is, but myself.

This nascent belief in my self-sabotaging tendencies was reinforced a few months later, at the end of the third period (the first half of the second semester). After taking on many more courses than I could manage, I was struggling to fit all of them in my head. Up and up, the temperature of the pressure pot soared. The only way I knew to stop its steady climb was to shut down completely. Have I told you about this? It feels like I must have. My brain's default response to overwhelming anxiety is to cease all voluntary actions. I'd lie in bed barely moving every day, noticing the exams draw nearer, making a list of all the things that must be done in preparation and not doing them. Consequently, I completely messed up an exam that was supposed to be easy. Realising I was in no condition to be taking exams, I cancelled my registration for the other approaching exam a few hours before it was to begin. Shame, like I'd never felt since I moved, completely floored me.

You see, shame and fear are what my chronic perfectionism uses to keep me in line. I knew I had a problem with wanting everything to be just-so, but before meeting with the counselor, I'd always thought it wasn't much of a problem at all. A differentiator was what it was. With most of the world content with mediocrity, being not only dissatisfied by it but also vehemently against it would give me an edge, make me stand out from the crowd. This is always what it's been about—the spotlight, the recognition, the consensus among friends, family, and colleagues that I am not at all like everyone else. "Favour? Favour is different. Favour is good." Hence, I have to be perfect at everything I do. Hence, the deep shame I feel when I fall short, and the fear of having to endure that keeps me walking in a straight line. Going off the path is strictly forbidden, but stopping dead in my tracks, for however long, is not. Hence, the breakdowns.

In your email, you said you hadn't felt like you were ever amazing at something. I look in awe at people I believe to be better than I am, too, and I count myself lucky to have discovered more such people this year. Moreover, I do believe that I've been afforded the opportunity to excel—really excel—at this one thing. All the signs are there. I see them, and I take note. But shame and fear, Rosemary. While their true nature has been exposed to me, their power hasn't diminished. With sweaty, shaky hands, I tear along the dotted line.

It's Monday now, and I'm happy. If you, like me, come to the end of this email with just a little hope, I'll be even happier. I see what I am. My understanding of what causes the breakdowns could be wrong, but it provides me with agency. In its framework, I can work towards getting better. Outside of my career, and plans for my future, and my beliefs of people's opinions of me, I want to be Good. I want to look in the mirror and be satisfied with the person that stares at me with my eyes and talks with my mouth. I want to love this person deeply, and understand him, and be there for him. He has been through quite a lot, yet I don't give him enough credit, never make him feel like he is enough. But he is enough, and he'll know love.

I hope this wasn't too heavy for the festive season. Thank you for 2024, the years before, and the years that will come after. You worry about the future, but I know we'll be fine. For me, getting to the future is the main challenge. We don't have to define every variable now. It's an exercise that's sure to fail. When you paint, paint with broad strokes and leave the fine details for later. You've come this far without having all the information when you were younger. Hell, you've told me how much medical school isn't at all like what was sold to you. Still, look at you on your way to graduating! Trust that you'll be the same person in a few years, able to adapt to whatever environment, incorporating new information as it comes. For now, eat as much as possible, have as much fun as possible, and sleep at any opportunity you get. A very merry Christmas to you, Rosemary.

Love,

FA.
